Prerak K C: S3949156
https://kcprerak.github.io/kcprerak3.github.io/index.html 

Name: Prerak K C
Student Number: S3949156
Background: Nepali 
Hobbies: Sports, music 
I was born on November 23rd 2003 in Chicago, America to my Nepali parents who through the help of my Grandfather decided to name me Prerak which in Nepali means to inspire others. 
Whilst growing up I was taught the Nepali language and the traditions and cultures that my family and nation held. 
My most recent school was The Knox School located in Wantirna South where I hold many joyous and fond memories of my schooling experience. 
Whilst attending the school I played the Tenor Saxophone in the school's Jazz and concert band. 
I also played soccer for 11 years and only recently stopped to pick up Brazilian Jiu Jitsu or BJJ for short at Immersion MMA at Glen Waverley


Cybersecurity 
 
Cybersecurity is the management and maintenance of a systems protection from any threats and attacks that are unwanted and have malicious intent. 
The need for cybersecurity has exponentially grown over the recent decades in tandem with the growth of technology in terms of innovation and usage, 
this is evidently seen as “Forbes reports an average 26,000 incidents a day” (1) with incidents referring to cybercrime. 
In order to combat malicious attackers and threats a wide array of cybersecurity protocols and actions are emplaced in order to prevent such threats, 
these protective and preventative measures can be as simple as teaching people to log off after using their devices and to have secure passwords to complex measures that involve creating anti-virus programs and creating complex algorithms that code encryptions and decryptions for messages. 
Cybersecurity doesn’t necessarily have a single state-of-the-art technology that is a be all and end all for all threats as the malicious threats and attacks that are presented are very broad and different and so defensive measures are also broad and different, 
additionally, cybersecurity is in a constant arms race with cybercrime. 
A good example of this is anti-virus software whether it be built into your computer or a third-party program such as Norton where they are constantly updating due to the fact that there is new malware being created or new inventive trojan attacks being sent which then lead to improvement to anti-virus software being needed and continuing in an ever escalating cycle. Currently, there are a multitude of things that people can do in order to be cybersafe and prevent cybercrime from occurring. The easiest and most simplest way to keep safe is to have complex and secure passwords, not to share your details to untrusted sources and to keep away from insecure links whilst also keeping your antiviral software up to date. Cybersecurity has a bright and interesting future ahead as “Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning will increasingly and continuously influence the evolution of cybersecurity” (2) . through the advancement of artificial intelligence and machine learning security will become more autonomous and thus will be less likely to be breached due to human error, furthermore, the advancement of these vital technologies will also see the creation and development of systems being able to predict and calculate future threats and how to either avoid them or solve the outright. Despite the innovative and bright future of cybersecurity the adverse will also occur, cybercriminals will eventually evolve to find alternate methods of attack to circumnavigate the increased defences or even use future machine learning and artificial intelligence as a platform to create new means of malicious attacks and threats. Furthermore, the future of cybersecurity doesn’t only improve with the improvement of technology but also through the improvement of behavioural analysis. Understanding the behaviour of attackers once they get into a system can show patterns that malicious attackers will display allowing cybersecurity experts to differentiate and identify the attacker faster and more efficiently catching the criminal and preventing any more harm from being done. Additionally, behaviour analysis can also aid companies from identifying issues and problems within the staff's everyday behaviours that leave the system at risk from attacks and through the advancements of behavioural analysis techniques cyber experts are “able to identify those people and mitigate that risk by training them properly"(3). The future of cybersecurity is broad and exciting with new challenges to overcome with the aid of new techniques and technologies.
 
 
The impact of developing cybersecurity is an overall positive for humanity and society as a whole and on an individual level as improving cybersecurity would mean a diminishment in cybercrime which ”One report from PurpleSec showed that cyber incidents rose 600% during the pandemic” (1).
Developing cybersecurity won’t necessarily change the way you live your life but rather will make your everyday internet life a more safe place to relieve stress and worry on people greatly benefiting the individual and society. 
Additionally, the improvement of cybersecurity will greatly benefit businesses as “The average cost of a data breach in 2021 was 4.24 Million, according to IBM data” (1), with the improvements business won’t have to spend millions to criminals however these improvements will have to occur soon as “Cybersecurity Ventures predicts cybercrime will cost $10,5 trillion annually by 2025” (1), 
the massive loss of profit and revenue will obviously negatively impact businesses and thus will affect the employees working for the said businesses as the possibility of peoples jobs being lost will increase due to a loss of money to pay for salaries if the development of cybersecurity is not undertaken. 
However, companies spend large amounts of money to prevent such occurrences and for improvements on cybersecurity as evident by “Statista reports $40.8 billion in IT security spent in 2019” and in doing so will mean a large amounts of job opportunities will be available with The “job market is expected to grow 33% between 2020 and 2030, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.”
Currently cybersecurity is not in the centre stage of my life, however, cybersecurity plays a pivotal background role in my everyday activities. 
I regularly watch shows on Netflix or watch a video on Netflix  where my data and passwords to my Gmail and the respective youtube and Netflix accounts are held. Without cybersecurity my passwords, 
access to data, access to personnel services and my email would be easily accessible without my consent which would not be a positive thing. Furthermore, I like to regularly shop online, 
whether it’s to purchase a new Gi for Jiu jitsu or do order some Korean Fried Chicken  without cybersecurity systems emplaced in the websites I order such items such as a secure storage system that is encrypted then malicious users would be able to easily gain my credit card details and make purchases without my consent or knowledge leading to me incurring large amounts of financial liability. 
Cybersecurity also plays a pivotal role in my parents life, without the protective and preventive measures of cybersecurity information of patients health records kept on my parent clinic system would mean the patients health records could be deleted, edited or be used as ransom to which my parents business would be held liable for the damages incurred. 
Cybersecurity is an often overlooked part of our lives that we take for granted yet without it the ability to do tasks online or to maintain and operate businesses would not be possible without the immense risk of being attacked by users with malicious intent, so, cybersecurity is a pivotal technological requirement of which runs in the background and goes unnoticed
 
(1)
 Watters, A., 2022. Top 50 Cybersecurity Statistics, Figures and Facts. [online] Default. Available at: <https://connect.comptia.org/blog/cyber-security-stats-facts#:~:text=Cybersecurity%20Job%20Statistics&text=In%20fact%2C%20it's%20estimated%20that,cybersecurity%20pro%20is%20%24103%2C%20590.> [Accessed 18 April 2022].
 
(2)
Mello Jr, J., 2022. 5 emerging security technologies set to level the battlefield. [online] TechBeacon. Available at: <https://techbeacon.com/security/5-emerging-security-technologies-set-level-battlefield> [Accessed 18 April 2022].
 
(3)
NetQuest. 2022. What is The Future of Cybersecurity? | Trends & Emerging Technologies - NetQuest. [online] Available at: <https://netquestcorp.com/what-is-the-future-of-cybersecurity-trends-emerging-technologies/#:~:text=Artificial%20intelligence%20(AI)%2C%20machine,to%20address%20pressing%20protection%20issues.> [Accessed 18 April 2022].
